# Patrick Snow Reflection Essay
1. Discuss one challenge you overcame during your academic development. What was the challenge, was it technical, nontechnical, or both, and how did you overcome it?
- One of my toughest technical challenges I had overcome during my college years was a project in Procedural Programming. The project was to create a battleship game that utilizes the user's control and the enemy AI controls. The challenge I had to overcome was the organized control of the game and to make the functions work flawlessly for the user. I did have troubles at first because I was not able to understand why I had errors produced when I thought that I had made all of the codes needed for it to run smoothly. I would try to fix those errors only to make more so I decided to systematically find the cause of the problem. The way I was able to find out why I had so many errors is because I systematically commented out certain parts of the codes. If the segment of codes worked then I would uncomment the next set of code till I got to the part where I run into the previous errors. Then, I was able to determine where the source of all my problems were by staying calm and looking through my codes rationally. After I fixed that one mistyped code then the game started to function in the way I wanted it to.
2. Discuss a situation where you worked with a team. How would you describe yourself as a teammate? Where can you improve your team skills? Be specific.
- I worked on a couple of projects with a team in some of my classes. One of my favorite team based projects was during the Human-Computer Interaction course. The project required the class to form their own team and project. My team decided to make a personal financial manager utilizing our knowledge of HTML and CSS. It would request the user answer some financial questions then after all of the answers were submitted it would give the user some recommendations or tips on ways to handle money better if they needed help. My partner and I decided to half the work between us so it would be more fair. Due to our different schedules, my partner worked on whatever she could do during her free time then I would finish the rest of my half of the work and some more if needed. Then on the day before or on the last day of the assignment due date we would review our work together and fix it up. The most awesome part of this team based project due to the covid situation at the time is how well we were able to stay in communication with each other even though we never had to meet up with each other in person. I would describe myself as a teammate who is willing to do anything in my skill set to accomplish our goal. I am honest with my teammates about how I am doing with my portion of the work. I try to make sure that everyone has equal participation in the team based project. The best way that I could improve my team skills is to take a more active leadership role if needed for the group. Sometimes a team needs a leader to take control of the project and assign fair and equal work for the group.
3. What type of career in CS do you believe you are most suited for? Why this field and not another? Be specific.
- The type of career in CS that I would be most suited for is Cyber Security Analyst. I like coding, data analyst, computer security, and my favorite is web page design. The reason why I picked the general career in CS is because I am intrigued by the advancement of computers over the years and I would like to help in any way possible. I am passionate about computers so I have never considered another field. This has been my dream since I took my first computer class in middle school. Since, cyber security is in such great demand in the world then I could help any business improve their cyber security defenses. Hackers and scammers are only going to get more clever in the future so it is best for a company to have a cyber security specialist to help protect them from the potential dangers.
4. What professional organizations would you like to join? What professional development would you like to be a part of in the next five years? Be specific.
- I would not mind working anywhere in the world.  I would like to join Google or Viz Media. The reason why I would pick Google is because they have a data center in my hometown so I could stay close to my family while working at my dream profession. The reason why I would pick Viz Media is because I would like to help improve security standards for their app to prevent piracy. I enjoy reading shonen manga and anime which is mainly supplied by Viz Media. The main reason why I would like to help them is because a lot of their products get pirated off of their website and it hurts the creators profits. The manga artists and authors have such a hard time getting money but they have people who are simply handing their hard work out for free.The ways that I could help them resolve it is by making their app work in a similar way to banking apps so they cannot screenshot or record their phone when they access the manga or anime. Another way that I could help Viz Media is by creating an algorithm to find the social media accounts and websites that supply the pirated products. If they are able to find them then they could sue them or simply have their account or website shut down.
5. What are the ways you can use the skills you have learned in CS to serve your community? Be specific.
- I can use my skills that I have learned in CS to educate others on how scammers and hackers are able to attack people through their computers. I can tell them how to recognize signs of phishing and fake company email accounts that try to get users to click on fishy links with viruses attached to them. I could teach them the pros and cons between wireless and wire connections. The main danger of wire connections is hackers could splice the cable connections if they are easily accessible to anyone. The main danger of wireless connections is that a hacker can gain access to the whole network by simply hacking the most vulnerable equipment such as a printer. I could also help the community by pointing out security concerns with people sharing too much personal information on the internet and the dangers of overusing one password for everything. The main reason why it would be dangerous for someone if they use the same password for numerous applications is if a hacker was able to successfully hack an account for one application then they would have access to all of their other applications. This could lead the hacker to having access to the user’s back account. I could also help people develop their own websites if they needed it for their start up business by utilizing what I have learned with HTML and CSS. Another skill that I have learned in CS that could help serve in my community would be how to handle online team based projects because of my experience doing many team based projects that utilized Zoom meetings and Github.



